example: Makeswift + Dato with Blogs & Authors (#1035)
makeswift/makeswift: examples/dato/README.md

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 18.x or later
- [Makeswift](https://www.makeswift.com/) account (for visual page building)
- [Dato](https://www.datocms.com/) account (for content management)
- Basic familiarity with [Next.js App Router](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)

This guide assumes that you're familiar with Makeswift and setting up a custom host. Read here to learn more: https://docs.makeswift.com/developer/app-router/installation

## Project Structure

```
dato/
├── app/                   # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── blog/              # Blog-related routes
│   ├── api/               # API endpoints
│   └── [[...path]]/       # Dynamic Makeswift routes
├── components/            # Reusable React components
│   └── dato/        # Dato-specific components
│       ├── common/        # Common scalar components
│       ├── entries/       # Entry-specific components
│       │   └── BlogPost/  # BlogPost entry components
│       └── queries/       # GraphQL queries
├── lib/                   # Utility functions and configs
└── generated/             # Auto-generated types from Dato
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Set up the project

```bash

> npx makeswift@latest init --example=dato

Reviewer: Similar to above, but I think we should clarify the user to create a new site during this process. Do we want them to use a template? Start from scratch? We should clarify that. Additionally, the API key should be taken care of autmatically in this step right? If so, we should call it out here to let them know it happens and remove the next step

# Makeswift + Dato Integration

This integration allows you to combine the power of Dato's content management with Makeswift's visual page building capabilities. Visually create dynamic, content-rich websites with a seamless development experience.

> For a detailed guide on setting up and using this integration, visit:

Reviewer: Sounds like we aren't going to have a guide on the Makeswift site. Should we remove this?

https://www.makeswift.com/integrations/dato

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 18.x or later
- [Makeswift](https://www.makeswift.com/) account (for visual page building)
- [Dato](https://www.datocms.com/) account (for content management)
- Basic familiarity with [Next.js App Router](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)

> This guide assumes that you're familiar with Makeswift and setting up a custom host. Read here to learn more: https://docs.makeswift.com/developer/app-router/installation

Reviewer: I think we need to add some clarity on the workflow here. Here, we reference understanding the installation setup, BUT later on we mention creating the site itself. Those two things seem backwards.

I forget, though, when we run the `npx makeswift` command, it allows us to create a new Makeswift site right? It also handles the environment variables?

## Project Structure

```
dato/
├── app/                   # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── blog/              # Blog-related routes
│   ├── api/               # API endpoints
│   └── [[...path]]/       # Dynamic Makeswift routes
├── components/            # Reusable React components
│   └── dato/        # Dato-specific components
│       ├── common/        # Common scalar components
│       ├── entries/       # Entry-specific components
│       │   └── BlogPost/  # BlogPost entry components
│       └── queries/       # GraphQL queries
├── lib/                   # Utility functions and configs
└── generated/             # Auto-generated types from Dato
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Set up the project

   ```bash
   npx makeswift@latest init --example=dato
   ```

> ### 2. Configure environment variables in `.env.local`

Reviewer: I think we should give a reference for finding those environment variables. Is there a link we can include for Dato on that?

For Makeswift, we can link to the installation and reference the "Add API key to environment variables" section - https://www.makeswift.com/integrations/dato

   ```
   MAKESWIFT_SITE_API_KEY=your_makeswift_api_key
   DATO_CMS_API_TOKEN=your_dato_api_token
   ```

### 3. Set up your content model

To get started with blog posts, you'll need to set up a content model in Dato. Here's what we recommend:

> - Create a new content type called "Author" with the following fields:

Reviewer: Do we need to mark these as required?

   - **Name** (Short text) - The name of the author. Make sure to check "This field represents the Entry title" in the field options.
   - **Slug** (Short text) - A URL-friendly identifier (e.g. "author-name")
   - **Job Title** (Short text) - The author's job title
   - **Description** (Rich text) - The main content as rich text

- Create a new content type called "BlogPost" with the following fields:

   - **Title** (Single-line text) - A short text field for the post title. Make sure to check "This field represents the Entry title" in the field options.
   - **Description** (Multi-paragraph text) - A brief summary of the content
   - **Slug** (Single-line text) - A URL-friendly identifier (e.g. "my-first-blog-post")
   - **Feed Date** (Date) - When the post should appear in feed
   - **Body** (Structured text) - The main content as rich text
   - **Author** (Link to Author) - Which Author created the blog. Ensure that "Accept only specified entry type" is enabled in order to introspect this reference.
   - **Banner** (Image) - An optional hero image for the post
   
Be sure to add a few blog posts for testing purposes, and connect them to an Author.

### 4. Generate Dato types

>    ```bash

Reviewer: Can you add 1-2 sentences explaining what this does in more detail? I'd especially want to know what the output would be? Basically, I want to know what it's doing and how to confirm it did the right thing

   pnpm codegen-ts
   ```

Note that the only query we are working with is in `/components/dato/GetBlogs.graphql`.

### 5. Run the development server
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

## Building Blog Post pages in Makeswift

1. Publish your content in Dato.

> 2. In the [Makeswift builder](https://docs.makeswift.com/product/builder-basics), navigate to your blog post page by entering the post's URL (e.g., `/blog/welcome`) in the builder's URL bar.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that link makes sense? i would expect that link to take me to the builder directly

> 2. In the [Makeswift builder](https://docs.makeswift.com/product/builder-basics), navigate to your blog post page by entering the post's URL (e.g., `/blog/welcome`) in the builder's URL bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the Makeswift Visual Builder, navigate to your blog post page by entering the post's URL (e.g., `/blog/welcome`) in the builder's URL bar.
```
